README.md, before:

# FabricMon

FabricMon is an InfiniBand fabric monitoring daemon written in Go. It uses cgo
to call low-level functions in libibmad, libibumad, and libibnetdiscover.

InfiniBand switch modules for blade chassis are often unmanaged, with no simple
way to query their port counters. FabricMon solves this by querying the subnet
manager (SM), using management datagrams (MAD). The topology of the fabric is
mapped using libibnetdiscover and the counters of any active switch ports
are queried.

The fabric topology is also offered as a .JSON file, which is parsed by
FabricMon's web interface, based on the d3.js graph library, and displayed as
an SVG force graph.

This project is a work in progress, in the early stages of development.

## Building FabricMon

To build FabricMon, you will require the following development libraries
(Debian package names shown):

* libibmad-dev
* libibumad-dev
* libibnetdisc-dev
* libopensm-dev

The corresponding runtime libraries will be required on the target system
unless you build the FabricMon binary with static linking.

## InfiniBand Counters

Note that counters that represent data (e.g. PortXmitData and PortRcvData) are
divided by four (lanes). See https://community.mellanox.com/docs/DOC-2572 for
more information.

## Future Plans

* Subscribe to SM traps 128 (link state change) and 144 (port capabilities
  change), to avoid performing full sweep upon each HTTP request.

Commit message:

Add error counter widths to README

README.md, after:

# FabricMon

FabricMon is an InfiniBand fabric monitoring daemon written in Go. It uses cgo
to call low-level functions in libibmad, libibumad, and libibnetdiscover.

InfiniBand switch modules for blade chassis are often unmanaged, with no simple
way to query their port counters. FabricMon solves this by querying the subnet
manager (SM), using management datagrams (MAD). The topology of the fabric is
mapped using libibnetdiscover and the counters of any active switch ports
are queried.

The fabric topology is also offered as a .JSON file, which is parsed by
FabricMon's web interface, based on the d3.js graph library, and displayed as
an SVG force graph.

This project is a work in progress, in the early stages of development.

## Building FabricMon

To build FabricMon, you will require the following development libraries
(Debian package names shown):

* libibmad-dev
* libibumad-dev
* libibnetdisc-dev
* libopensm-dev

The corresponding runtime libraries will be required on the target system
unless you build the FabricMon binary with static linking.

## InfiniBand Counters

InfiniBand port counters do not automatically wrap when they reach their
maximum possible value, and instead latch with all bits set to one. In the case
of the 64-bit extended counters, this is likely to take a very long time, but
some of the error counters are 16, 8 or even 4 bits wide.

Note that counters that represent data (e.g. PortXmitData and PortRcvData) are
divided by four (lanes). See https://community.mellanox.com/docs/DOC-2572 for
more information.

### Error Counters

The following counters are *less than* 32 bits wide:

| Counter                      | Bits |
| ---------------------------- | ---- |
| SymbolErrorCounter           | 16   |
| LinkErrorRecoveryCounter     | 8    |
| LinkDownedCounter            | 8    |
| PortRcvErrors                | 16   |
| PortRcvRemotePhysicalErrors  | 16   |
| PortRcvSwitchRelayErrors     | 16   |
| PortXmitDiscards             | 16   |
| PortXmitContraintErrors      | 8    |
| PortRcvConstraintErrors      | 8    |
| LocalLinkIntegrityErrors     | 4    |
| ExcessiveBufferOverrunErrors | 4    |
| VL15Dropped                  | 16   |

## Future Plans

* Subscribe to SM traps 128 (link state change) and 144 (port capabilities
  change), to avoid performing full sweep upon each HTTP request.
